TOM SCOTT: I got an email saying:
"Would you like to visit our satellite room?"
Yes. Yes I would like.
(How does it climb?)
WOUTER WEGGELAAR: This is a clean room.
We have a working environment here, people can work clean.
Basically, it's a box in a box.
And there are some filters on the roof
and also in the walls we have ventilation
so the air is always down
and also a clean room with laminar flow
so the air always moves straight down
instead of in the vortices.
TS: Innovative Space Logistics in the Netherlands.
Originally a separate project from the technical department of TU Delft,
now emit minisites like this -
well, it's just a model, that's why I can touch it -
but they send satellites like this into the real universe.
Think, rockets can start anywhere in the world,
but some satellites on board? Assembled here.
WW: The cage behind me is the customs zone
where the satellites get inside a clean room
but not in the Netherlands
it's for export reasons.
We are technically exporting these satellites to the country
which is the starting country
but they are exported to space
and the Universe has no box on the forms!
TS: There are international standards for clean rooms.
They go from ISO 9, which is just normal air,
up to ISO 1. This room is only ISO 7,
which does not sound very impressive until you realize it is a logarithmic scale:
each level of this standard requires a tenth of the amount of dust and particle.
So this room guarantees less than 1% of dust outside.
WW: So the main source of pollution -
and that's why I'm wearing all this -
are particles that are released from our own bodies.
Dead skin cells, hairs. If you smoke, even exhaled air.
Beard, in my case, I have a mask.
Cardboard, paper, Velcro -
basically things you can capture particles and relax if you do not.
TS: And it's not just about dust particles that you can see.
They are actually quite simple.
Clean rooms also need to remove microparticles,
things that are smaller than bacteria.
You do not have to get all of them,
but you have to get most of them.
WW: This is a small communications satellite named Nayif-1.
And this satellite will be a communication experiment
and will also be used in space teaching classes.
Schools can receive signals from this satellite
decode them in class
and learn about the universe, learning about radio.
TS: The worst case scenario here is contamination on the camera lens,
or a vacuum gyroscope that fails when it makes 10,000 rpm ... in space.
This is the real satellite,
will be heading into space later this year,
and I have to stand by him,
for if I leaned, so dust from me,
or saliva from my mouth, can fall down.
It will not destroy anything now.
but in zero gravity, in vacuum,
with direct sunlight shining directly on it?
It is not possible to call a satellite fault service.
And so to be sure, it is still kept very, very clean.
But those ISO 1 clean rooms? They are for many other missions.
WW: ISO 1 clean rooms are very clean,
and basically for Mars missions or missions to the moon,
where we do not want to contaminate the surface of the planet or any other subject we want to reach.
TS: Will you send something soon to Mars?
WW: Not at the moment, not planned
but maybe in the future we'll send something to Mars! You never know.
Translation - Wall + (author of the first 2 minutes)